docs/deployment.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 8
title: "☁️ Deployment"
---

# ☁️ Deployment

You can also deploy Chroma on a long-running server, and connect to it
remotely.

There are many possible configurations, but for convenience we have
provided a very simple AWS CloudFormation template to experiment with
deploying Chroma to EC2 on AWS.

## Simple AWS Deployment

:warning: Chroma and its underlying database need at least 2gb of RAM,
which means it won't fit on the 1gb instances provided as part of the
AWS Free Tier. This template uses a `t3.small` EC2 instance, which
costs about two cents an hour, or $15 for a full month. If you follow these
instructions, AWS will bill you accordingly.

:warning: This basic stack doesn't support any kind of authentication;
anyone who knows your server IP will be able to add and query for
embeddings. To secure this endpoint, you'll need to put it behind
[AWS API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/) or add your own
authenticating proxy.

:warning: By default, this template saves all data on a single
volume. When you delete or replace it, the data will disappear. For
serious production use (with high availability, backups, etc) please
read and understand the CloudFormation template and use it as a basis
for what you need, or reach out to the Chroma team for assistance.


### Step 1: Get an AWS Account

You will need an AWS Account. You can use one you already have, or
[create a new one](https://aws.amazon.com).

### Step 2: Get credentials

For this example, we will be using the AWS command line
interface. There are
[several ways](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-prereqs.html)
to configure the AWS CLI, but for the purposes of these examples we
will presume that you have
[obtained an AWS access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html).

Export the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables in your shell:


```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=****************
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=**********************
```

### Step 3: Run CloudFormation

Chroma publishes Cloudformation templates to S3 for each release.

To launch the template using AWS CloudFormation, run the following command line invocation:

```
aws cloudformation create-stack --stack-name my-chroma-stack --template-url https://s3.amazonaws.com/public.trychroma.com/cloudformation/latest/chroma.cf.json
```

Replace `--stack-name my-chroma-stack` with a different stack name, if you wish.

Wait a few minutes for the server to boot up, and Chroma will be
available! You can get the public IP address of your new Chroma server using the AWS console, or using the following command:

```
aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name my-chroma-stack --query 'Stacks[0].Outputs'
```

### Step 4: Customize the Stack (optional)

The CloudFormation template allows you to pass particular key/value
pairs to override aspects of the stack. Available keys are:

- `InstanceType` - the AWS instance type to run (default: `t3.small`)
- `Region` - the AWS region into which to deploy (default: `us-east-1`)
- `KeyName` - the AWS EC2 KeyPair to use, allowing to to access the instance via SSH (default: none)

### Step 5: Configure the Chroma Library

When you launch the Chroma client library to actually use Chroma, all
you need to do is configure it to use the server's IP address and port
`8000`. You can do this in two ways:

### Step 6: Clean Up (optional).

To destroy the stack and remove all AWS resources, use the AWS CLI `delete-stack` command.

```
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name my-chroma-stack
```

:warning: This will destroy all the data in your Chroma database,
unless you've taken a snapshot or otherwise backed it up.

###### Using Environment Variables


```
export CHROMA_API_IMPL=rest
export CHROMA_SERVER_HOST=<server IP address>
export CHROMA_SERVER_HTTP_PORT=8000
```


###### In Code

```
import chromadb
from chromadb.config import Settings

chroma = chromadb.Client(Settings(chroma_api_impl="rest",
                                  chroma_server_host="<server IP address>",
                                  chroma_server_http_port=8000))
```

Commit message:

add examples for setting parameters

docs/deployment.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 8
title: "☁️ Deployment"
---

# ☁️ Deployment

You can also deploy Chroma on a long-running server, and connect to it
remotely.

There are many possible configurations, but for convenience we have
provided a very simple AWS CloudFormation template to experiment with
deploying Chroma to EC2 on AWS.

## Simple AWS Deployment

:warning: Chroma and its underlying database need at least 2gb of RAM,
which means it won't fit on the 1gb instances provided as part of the
AWS Free Tier. This template uses a `t3.small` EC2 instance, which
costs about two cents an hour, or $15 for a full month. If you follow these
instructions, AWS will bill you accordingly.

:warning: This basic stack doesn't support any kind of authentication;
anyone who knows your server IP will be able to add and query for
embeddings. To secure this endpoint, you'll need to put it behind
[AWS API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/) or add your own
authenticating proxy.

:warning: By default, this template saves all data on a single
volume. When you delete or replace it, the data will disappear. For
serious production use (with high availability, backups, etc) please
read and understand the CloudFormation template and use it as a basis
for what you need, or reach out to the Chroma team for assistance.


### Step 1: Get an AWS Account

You will need an AWS Account. You can use one you already have, or
[create a new one](https://aws.amazon.com).

### Step 2: Get credentials

For this example, we will be using the AWS command line
interface. There are
[several ways](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-prereqs.html)
to configure the AWS CLI, but for the purposes of these examples we
will presume that you have
[obtained an AWS access key](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_access-keys.html).

Export the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` environment variables in your shell:


```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=****************
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=**********************
```

### Step 3: Run CloudFormation

Chroma publishes Cloudformation templates to S3 for each release.

To launch the template using AWS CloudFormation, run the following command line invocation:

```
aws cloudformation create-stack --stack-name my-chroma-stack --template-url https://s3.amazonaws.com/public.trychroma.com/cloudformation/latest/chroma.cf.json
```

Replace `--stack-name my-chroma-stack` with a different stack name, if you wish.

Wait a few minutes for the server to boot up, and Chroma will be
available! You can get the public IP address of your new Chroma server using the AWS console, or using the following command:

```
aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name my-chroma-stack --query 'Stacks[0].Outputs'
```

### Step 4: Customize the Stack (optional)

The CloudFormation template allows you to pass particular key/value
pairs to override aspects of the stack. Available keys are:

- `InstanceType` - the AWS instance type to run (default: `t3.small`)
- `Region` - the AWS region into which to deploy (default: `us-east-1`)
- `KeyName` - the AWS EC2 KeyPair to use, allowing to to access the instance via SSH (default: none)

To set a CloudFormation stack's parameters using the AWS CLI, use the
`--parameters` command line option. Parameters must be specified using
the format `ParameterName={parameter},ParameterValue={value}`.

For example, the following command launches a new stack similar to the
above, but in the `us-west-1` region, on a `m5.4xlarge` EC2 instance,
and adding a KeyPair named `mykey` so anyone with the associated
private key can SSH into the machine:


```
aws cloudformation create-stack --stack-name my-chroma-stack --template-url https://s3.amazonaws.com/public.trychroma.com/cloudformation/latest/chroma.cf.json \
    --parameters ParameterKey=KeyName,ParameterValue=mykey \
                 ParameterKey=Region,ParameterValue=us-west-1 \
                 ParameterKey=InstanceType,ParameterValue=m5.4xlarge
```


### Step 5: Configure the Chroma Library

When you launch the Chroma client library to actually use Chroma, all
you need to do is configure it to use the server's IP address and port
`8000`. You can do this in two ways:

### Step 6: Clean Up (optional).

To destroy the stack and remove all AWS resources, use the AWS CLI `delete-stack` command.

```
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name my-chroma-stack
```

:warning: This will destroy all the data in your Chroma database,
unless you've taken a snapshot or otherwise backed it up.

###### Using Environment Variables


```
export CHROMA_API_IMPL=rest
export CHROMA_SERVER_HOST=<server IP address>
export CHROMA_SERVER_HTTP_PORT=8000
```


###### In Code

```
import chromadb
from chromadb.config import Settings

chroma = chromadb.Client(Settings(chroma_api_impl="rest",
                                  chroma_server_host="<server IP address>",
                                  chroma_server_http_port=8000))
```
