docs/usage-guide.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: "🧪 Usage Guide"
---

# 🧪 Usage Guide


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<div class="select-language">Select a language</div>

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python"></TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript"></TabItem>
</Tabs>

***

## Initiating the Chroma client

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
import chromadb
```

By default Chroma uses an in-memory database, which gets persisted on exit and loaded on start (if it exists). This is fine for many experimental / prototyping workloads, limited by your machine's memory.

```python
from chromadb.config import Settings
client = chromadb.Client(Settings(
    chroma_db_impl="duckdb+parquet",
    persist_directory="/path/to/persist/directory" # Optional, defaults to .chromadb/ in the current directory
))
```

The `persist_directory` is where Chroma will store its database files on disk, and load them on start.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```js
import { ChromaClient } from 'chromadb'
```

The JS client talks to a chroma server backend. This can run on your local computer via `docker` (see below) or be easily deployed to AWS.

```js
const client = new ChromaClient();
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

The client object has a few useful convenience methods.

```python
client.heartbeat() # returns a nanosecond heartbeat. Useful for making sure the client remains connected.
client.reset() # Empties and completely resets the database. ⚠️ This is destructive and not reversible.
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

The client object has a few useful convenience methods.

```javascript
await client.reset() # Empties and completely resets the database. ⚠️ This is destructive and not reversible.
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>




## Running Chroma in client/server mode

Chroma can also be configured to use an on-disk database, useful for larger data which doesn't fit in memory. To run Chroma in client server mode, run the docker container:

```bash
docker-compose up -d --build
```

Then update your chroma client to point at the docker container. Default: `localhost:8000`

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
import chromadb
```

By default Chroma uses an in-memory database, which gets persisted on exit and loaded on start (if it exists). This is fine for many experimental / prototyping workloads, limited by your machine's memory.

```python
from chromadb.config import Settings
client = chromadb.Client(Settings(
    chroma_db_impl="duckdb+parquet",
    persist_directory="/path/to/persist/directory" # Optional, defaults to .chromadb/ in the current directory
))
```

The `persist_directory` is where Chroma will store its database files on disk, and load them on start.

That's it! Chroma's API will seamlessly move over from `in-memory` mode to `client-server` with just this change.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

The JS client then talks to the chroma server backend. This can run on your local computer or be easily deployed to AWS.

```js
import { ChromaClient } from 'chromadb'
const client = new ChromaClient();
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


## Using collections

Chroma lets you manage collections of embeddings, using the `collection` primitive.

### Creating, inspecting, and deleting Collections

Chroma uses collection names in the url, so there are a few restrictions on naming them:

- The length of the name must be between 3 and 63 characters.
- The name must start and end with a lowercase letter or a digit, and it can contain dots, dashes, and underscores in between.
- The name must not contain two consecutive dots.
- The name must not be a valid IP address.

Chroma collections are created with a name and an optional embedding function. If you supply an embedding function, you must supply it every time you get the collection.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection = client.create_collection(name="my_collection", embedding_function=emb_fn)
collection = client.get_collection(name="my_collection", embedding_function=emb_fn)
```

:::caution
If you later wish to `get_collection`, you MUST do so with the embedding function you supplied while creating the collection
:::

The embedding function takes text as input, and performs tokenization and embedding. If no embedding function is supplied, Chroma will use [sentence transfomer](https://www.sbert.net/index.html) as a default.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```js
import { ChromaClient } from 'chromadb'
```

The JS client talks to a chroma server backend. This can run on your local computer or be easily deployed to AWS.

```js
let collection = await client.createCollection("my_collection", undefined, embedding_function=emb_fn)
let collection2 = await client.getCollection("my_collection", embedding_function=emb_fn)
```

:::caution
If you later wish to `getCollection`, you MUST do so with the embedding function you supplied while creating the collection
:::

The embedding function takes text as input, and performs tokenization and embedding. 

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


You can learn more about [🧬 embedding functions](./embeddings.md), and how to create your own.


<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

Existing collections can be retrieved by name with `.get_collection`, and deleted with `.delete_collection`. You can also use `.get_or_create_collection` to get a collection if it exists, or create it if it doesn't.


```python
collection = client.get_collection(name="test") # Get a collection object from an existing collection, by name. Will raise an exception of it's not found.
collection = client.get_or_create_collection(name="test") # Get a collection object from an existing collection, by name. If it doesn't exist, create it.
client.delete_collection(name="my_collection") # Delete a collection and all associated embeddings, documents, and metadata. ⚠️ This is destructive and not reversible
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

Existing collections can be retrieved by name with `.getCollection`, and deleted with `.deleteCollection`.

```javascript
const collection = await client.getCollection("test") # Get a collection object from an existing collection, by name. Will raise an exception of it's not found.
await client.deleteCollection("my_collection") # Delete a collection and all associated embeddings, documents, and metadata. ⚠️ This is destructive and not reversible
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


Collections have a few useful convenience methods.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.peek() # returns a list of the first 10 items in the collection
collection.count() # returns the number of items in the collection
collection.modify(name="new_name") # Rename the collection
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.peek() // returns a list of the first 10 items in the collection
await collection.count() // returns the number of items in the collection
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



### Adding data to a Collection

Add data to Chroma with `.add`.

Raw documents:

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.add(
    documents=["lorem ipsum...", "doc2", "doc3", ...],
    metadatas=[{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...],
    ids=["id1", "id2", "id3", ...]
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.add(
    ["id1", "id2", "id3", ...],
    undefined,
    [{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...], 
    ["lorem ipsum...", "doc2", "doc3", ...], 
)
// input order
// ids - required
// embeddings - optional
// metadata - optional
// documents - optional
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



If Chroma is passed a list of `documents`, it will automatically tokenize and embed them with the collection's embedding function (the default will be used if none was supplied at collection creation). Chroma will also store the `documents` themselves. If the documents are too large to embed using the chosen embedding function, an exception will be raised.

Each document must have a unique associated `id`. Chroma does not track uniqueness of ids for you, it is up to the caller to not add the same id twice.
An optional list of `metadata` dictionaries can be supplied for each document, to store additional information and enable filtering.

Alternatively, you can supply a list of document-associated `embeddings` directly, and Chroma will store the associated documents without embedding them itself.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
await collection.add(
    documents=["doc1", "doc2", "doc3", ...],
    embeddings=[[1.1, 2.3, 3.2], [4.5, 6.9, 4.4], [1.1, 2.3, 3.2], ...],
    metadatas=[{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...],
    ids=["id1", "id2", "id3", ...]
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.add(
    ["id1", "id2", "id3", ...], 
    [[1.1, 2.3, 3.2], [4.5, 6.9, 4.4], [1.1, 2.3, 3.2], ...],
    [{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...], 
    ["lorem ipsum...", "doc2", "doc3", ...], 
)

```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



If the supplied `embeddings` are not the same dimension as the collection, an exception will be raised.

You can also store documents elsewhere, and just supply a list of `embeddings` and `metadata` to Chroma. You can use the `ids` to associate the embeddings with your documents stored elsewhere.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.add(
    embeddings=[[1.1, 2.3, 3.2], [4.5, 6.9, 4.4], [1.1, 2.3, 3.2], ...
    metadatas=[{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...],
    ids=["id1", "id2", "id3", ...]
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.add(
    ["id1", "id2", "id3", ...], 
    [[1.1, 2.3, 3.2], [4.5, 6.9, 4.4], [1.1, 2.3, 3.2], ...], 
    [{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...], 
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



### Querying a Collection

Chroma collections can be queried in a variety of ways, using the `.query` method.

You can query by a set of `query_embeddings`.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.query(
    query_embeddings=[[11.1, 12.1, 13.1],[1.1, 2.3, 3.2] ...]
    n_results=10,
    where={"metadata_field": "is_equal_to_this"},
    where_document={"$contains":"search_string"}
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
const result = await collection.query(
    [[11.1, 12.1, 13.1],[1.1, 2.3, 3.2] ...],
    10, 
    {"metadata_field": "is_equal_to_this"}, 
    undefined,
)
// input order
// query_embeddings - optional
// n_results - required
// where - optional
// query_texts - optional
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



The query will return the `n_results` closest matches to each `query_embedding`, in order.
An optional `where` filter dictionary can be supplied to filter the results by the `metadata` associated with each document.
Additionally, an optional `where_document` filter dictionary can be supplied to filter the results by contents of the document.

If the supplied `query_embeddings` are not the same dimension as the collection, an exception will be raised.

You can also query by a set of `query_texts`. Chroma will first embed each `query_text` with the collection's embedding function, and then perform the query with the generated embedding.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.query(
    query_texts=["doc10", "thus spake zarathustra", ...]
    n_results=10,
    where={"metadata_field": "is_equal_to_this"},
    where_document={"$contains":"search_string"}
)
```

You can also retrieve items from a collection by `id` using `.get`.

```python
collection.get(
	ids=["id1", "id2", "id3", ...],
	where={"style": "style1"}
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.query(
    undefined, // query_embeddings
    10, // n_results
    {"metadata_field": "is_equal_to_this"}, // where
    ["doc10", "thus spake zarathustra", ...], // query_text
)
```

You can also retrieve items from a collection by `id` using `.get`.

```javascript
await collection.get(
	["id1", "id2", "id3", ...], //ids
	{"style": "style1"} // where
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



`.get` also supports the `where` and `where_document` filters. If no `ids` are supplied, it will return all items in the collection that match the `where` and `where_document` filters.

##### Choosing which data is returned
When using get or query you can use the include parameter to specify which data you want returned - any of `embeddings`, `documents`, `metadatas`, and for query, `distances`. By default, Chroma will return the `documents`, `metadatas` and in the case of query, the `distances` of the results. `embeddings` are excluded by default for performance and the `ids` are always returned. You can specify which of these you want returned by passing an array of included field names to the includes parameter of the query or get method.

```python

# Only get documents and ids
collection.get(
    include=["documents"]
)

collection.query(
    query_embeddings=[[11.1, 12.1, 13.1],[1.1, 2.3, 3.2] ...],
    include=["documents"]
)
```

### Using Where filters

Chroma supports filtering queries by `metadata` and `document` contents. The `where` filter is used to filter by `metadata`, and the `where_document` filter is used to filter by `document` contents.

##### Filtering by metadata
In order to filter on metadata, you must supply a `where` filter dictionary to the query. The dictionary must have the following structure:

```python
{
    "metadata_field": {
        <Operator>: <Value>
    },
    "metadata_field": {
        <Operator>: <Value>
    },
}
```

Filtering metadata supports the following operators:

- `$eq` - equal to (string, int, float)
- `$ne` - not equal to (string, int, float)
- `$gt` - greater than (int, float)
- `$gte` - greater than or equal to (int, float)
- `$lt` - less than (int, float)
- `$lte` - less than or equal to (int, float)

Using the $eq operator is equivalent to using the `where` filter.
```python
{
    "metadata_field": "search_string"
}

# is equivalent to

{
    "metadata_field": {
        "$eq": "search_string"
    }
}

```
##### Filtering by document contents
In order to filter on document contents, you must supply a `where_document` filter dictionary to the query. The dictionary must have the following structure:

```python
# Filtering for a search_string
{
    "$contains": "search_string"
}
``` 


##### Using logical operators

You can also use the logical operators `$and` and `$or` to combine multiple filters.

An `$and` operator will return results that match all of the filters in the list.
```python
{
    "$and": [
        {
            "metadata_field": {
                <Operator>: <Value>
            }
        },
        {
            "metadata_field": {
                <Operator>: <Value>
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

An `$or` operator will return results that match any of the filters in the list.
```python
{
    "$or": [
        {
            "metadata_field": {
                <Operator>: <Value>
            }
        },
        {
            "metadata_field": {
                <Operator>: <Value>
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

### Updating data in a collection

Any property of items in a collection can be updated using `.update`.

```python
collection.update(
    ids=["id1", "id2", "id3", ...],
    embeddings=[[1.1, 2.3, 3.2], [4.5, 6.9, 4.4], [1.1, 2.3, 3.2], ...],
    metadatas=[{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...],
    documents=["doc1", "doc2", "doc3", ...],
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



If an `id` is not found in the collection, an exception will be raised. If `documents` are supplied without corresponding `embeddings`, the embeddings will be recomupted with the collection's embedding function.

If the supplied `embeddings` are not the same dimension as the collection, an exception will be raised.

### Deleting data from a collection

Chroma supports deleting items from a collection by `id` using `.delete`. The embeddings, documents, and metadata associated with each item will be deleted.
⚠️ Naturally, this is a destructive operation, and cannot be undone.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.delete(
    ids=["id1", "id2", "id3",...],
	where={"chapter": "20"}
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.delete(
    ["id1", "id2", "id3",...], //ids
	{"chapter": "20"} //where
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



`.delete` also supports the `where` filter. If no `ids` are supplied, it will delete all items in the collection that match the `where` filter.

Commit message:

fix client server init instructions

docs/usage-guide.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: "🧪 Usage Guide"
---

# 🧪 Usage Guide


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<div class="select-language">Select a language</div>

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python"></TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript"></TabItem>
</Tabs>

***

## Initiating the Chroma client

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
import chromadb
```

By default Chroma uses an in-memory database, which gets persisted on exit and loaded on start (if it exists). This is fine for many experimental / prototyping workloads, limited by your machine's memory.

```python
from chromadb.config import Settings
client = chromadb.Client(Settings(
    chroma_db_impl="duckdb+parquet",
    persist_directory="/path/to/persist/directory" # Optional, defaults to .chromadb/ in the current directory
))
```

The `persist_directory` is where Chroma will store its database files on disk, and load them on start.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```js
import { ChromaClient } from 'chromadb'
```

The JS client talks to a chroma server backend. This can run on your local computer via `docker` (see below) or be easily deployed to AWS.

```js
const client = new ChromaClient();
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

The client object has a few useful convenience methods.

```python
client.heartbeat() # returns a nanosecond heartbeat. Useful for making sure the client remains connected.
client.reset() # Empties and completely resets the database. ⚠️ This is destructive and not reversible.
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

The client object has a few useful convenience methods.

```javascript
await client.reset() # Empties and completely resets the database. ⚠️ This is destructive and not reversible.
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>




## Running Chroma in client/server mode

Chroma can also be configured to use an on-disk database, useful for larger data which doesn't fit in memory. To run Chroma in client server mode, run the docker container:

```bash
docker-compose up -d --build
```

Then update your chroma client to point at the docker container. Default: `localhost:8000`

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

By default Chroma uses an in-memory database, which gets persisted on exit and loaded on start (if it exists). This is fine for many experimental / prototyping workloads, limited by your machine's memory.

```python
import chromadb
from chromadb.config import Settings
chroma_client = chroma.Client(Settings(chroma_api_impl="rest",
                                        chroma_server_host="localhost",
                                        chroma_server_http_port="8000"
                                    ))
```

That's it! Chroma's API will seamlessly move over from `in-memory` mode to `client-server` with just this change.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

The JS client then talks to the chroma server backend. This can run on your local computer or be easily deployed to AWS.

```js
import { ChromaClient } from 'chromadb'
const client = new ChromaClient();
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


## Using collections

Chroma lets you manage collections of embeddings, using the `collection` primitive.

### Creating, inspecting, and deleting Collections

Chroma uses collection names in the url, so there are a few restrictions on naming them:

- The length of the name must be between 3 and 63 characters.
- The name must start and end with a lowercase letter or a digit, and it can contain dots, dashes, and underscores in between.
- The name must not contain two consecutive dots.
- The name must not be a valid IP address.

Chroma collections are created with a name and an optional embedding function. If you supply an embedding function, you must supply it every time you get the collection.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection = client.create_collection(name="my_collection", embedding_function=emb_fn)
collection = client.get_collection(name="my_collection", embedding_function=emb_fn)
```

:::caution
If you later wish to `get_collection`, you MUST do so with the embedding function you supplied while creating the collection
:::

The embedding function takes text as input, and performs tokenization and embedding. If no embedding function is supplied, Chroma will use [sentence transfomer](https://www.sbert.net/index.html) as a default.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```js
import { ChromaClient } from 'chromadb'
```

The JS client talks to a chroma server backend. This can run on your local computer or be easily deployed to AWS.

```js
let collection = await client.createCollection("my_collection", undefined, embedding_function=emb_fn)
let collection2 = await client.getCollection("my_collection", embedding_function=emb_fn)
```

:::caution
If you later wish to `getCollection`, you MUST do so with the embedding function you supplied while creating the collection
:::

The embedding function takes text as input, and performs tokenization and embedding. 

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


You can learn more about [🧬 embedding functions](./embeddings.md), and how to create your own.


<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

Existing collections can be retrieved by name with `.get_collection`, and deleted with `.delete_collection`. You can also use `.get_or_create_collection` to get a collection if it exists, or create it if it doesn't.


```python
collection = client.get_collection(name="test") # Get a collection object from an existing collection, by name. Will raise an exception of it's not found.
collection = client.get_or_create_collection(name="test") # Get a collection object from an existing collection, by name. If it doesn't exist, create it.
client.delete_collection(name="my_collection") # Delete a collection and all associated embeddings, documents, and metadata. ⚠️ This is destructive and not reversible
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

Existing collections can be retrieved by name with `.getCollection`, and deleted with `.deleteCollection`.

```javascript
const collection = await client.getCollection("test") # Get a collection object from an existing collection, by name. Will raise an exception of it's not found.
await client.deleteCollection("my_collection") # Delete a collection and all associated embeddings, documents, and metadata. ⚠️ This is destructive and not reversible
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>


Collections have a few useful convenience methods.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.peek() # returns a list of the first 10 items in the collection
collection.count() # returns the number of items in the collection
collection.modify(name="new_name") # Rename the collection
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.peek() // returns a list of the first 10 items in the collection
await collection.count() // returns the number of items in the collection
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



### Adding data to a Collection

Add data to Chroma with `.add`.

Raw documents:

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.add(
    documents=["lorem ipsum...", "doc2", "doc3", ...],
    metadatas=[{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...],
    ids=["id1", "id2", "id3", ...]
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.add(
    ["id1", "id2", "id3", ...],
    undefined,
    [{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...], 
    ["lorem ipsum...", "doc2", "doc3", ...], 
)
// input order
// ids - required
// embeddings - optional
// metadata - optional
// documents - optional
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



If Chroma is passed a list of `documents`, it will automatically tokenize and embed them with the collection's embedding function (the default will be used if none was supplied at collection creation). Chroma will also store the `documents` themselves. If the documents are too large to embed using the chosen embedding function, an exception will be raised.

Each document must have a unique associated `id`. Chroma does not track uniqueness of ids for you, it is up to the caller to not add the same id twice.
An optional list of `metadata` dictionaries can be supplied for each document, to store additional information and enable filtering.

Alternatively, you can supply a list of document-associated `embeddings` directly, and Chroma will store the associated documents without embedding them itself.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
await collection.add(
    documents=["doc1", "doc2", "doc3", ...],
    embeddings=[[1.1, 2.3, 3.2], [4.5, 6.9, 4.4], [1.1, 2.3, 3.2], ...],
    metadatas=[{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...],
    ids=["id1", "id2", "id3", ...]
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.add(
    ["id1", "id2", "id3", ...], 
    [[1.1, 2.3, 3.2], [4.5, 6.9, 4.4], [1.1, 2.3, 3.2], ...],
    [{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...], 
    ["lorem ipsum...", "doc2", "doc3", ...], 
)

```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



If the supplied `embeddings` are not the same dimension as the collection, an exception will be raised.

You can also store documents elsewhere, and just supply a list of `embeddings` and `metadata` to Chroma. You can use the `ids` to associate the embeddings with your documents stored elsewhere.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.add(
    embeddings=[[1.1, 2.3, 3.2], [4.5, 6.9, 4.4], [1.1, 2.3, 3.2], ...
    metadatas=[{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...],
    ids=["id1", "id2", "id3", ...]
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.add(
    ["id1", "id2", "id3", ...], 
    [[1.1, 2.3, 3.2], [4.5, 6.9, 4.4], [1.1, 2.3, 3.2], ...], 
    [{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...], 
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



### Querying a Collection

Chroma collections can be queried in a variety of ways, using the `.query` method.

You can query by a set of `query_embeddings`.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.query(
    query_embeddings=[[11.1, 12.1, 13.1],[1.1, 2.3, 3.2] ...]
    n_results=10,
    where={"metadata_field": "is_equal_to_this"},
    where_document={"$contains":"search_string"}
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
const result = await collection.query(
    [[11.1, 12.1, 13.1],[1.1, 2.3, 3.2] ...],
    10, 
    {"metadata_field": "is_equal_to_this"}, 
    undefined,
)
// input order
// query_embeddings - optional
// n_results - required
// where - optional
// query_texts - optional
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



The query will return the `n_results` closest matches to each `query_embedding`, in order.
An optional `where` filter dictionary can be supplied to filter the results by the `metadata` associated with each document.
Additionally, an optional `where_document` filter dictionary can be supplied to filter the results by contents of the document.

If the supplied `query_embeddings` are not the same dimension as the collection, an exception will be raised.

You can also query by a set of `query_texts`. Chroma will first embed each `query_text` with the collection's embedding function, and then perform the query with the generated embedding.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.query(
    query_texts=["doc10", "thus spake zarathustra", ...]
    n_results=10,
    where={"metadata_field": "is_equal_to_this"},
    where_document={"$contains":"search_string"}
)
```

You can also retrieve items from a collection by `id` using `.get`.

```python
collection.get(
	ids=["id1", "id2", "id3", ...],
	where={"style": "style1"}
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.query(
    undefined, // query_embeddings
    10, // n_results
    {"metadata_field": "is_equal_to_this"}, // where
    ["doc10", "thus spake zarathustra", ...], // query_text
)
```

You can also retrieve items from a collection by `id` using `.get`.

```javascript
await collection.get(
	["id1", "id2", "id3", ...], //ids
	{"style": "style1"} // where
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



`.get` also supports the `where` and `where_document` filters. If no `ids` are supplied, it will return all items in the collection that match the `where` and `where_document` filters.

##### Choosing which data is returned
When using get or query you can use the include parameter to specify which data you want returned - any of `embeddings`, `documents`, `metadatas`, and for query, `distances`. By default, Chroma will return the `documents`, `metadatas` and in the case of query, the `distances` of the results. `embeddings` are excluded by default for performance and the `ids` are always returned. You can specify which of these you want returned by passing an array of included field names to the includes parameter of the query or get method.

```python

# Only get documents and ids
collection.get(
    include=["documents"]
)

collection.query(
    query_embeddings=[[11.1, 12.1, 13.1],[1.1, 2.3, 3.2] ...],
    include=["documents"]
)
```

### Using Where filters

Chroma supports filtering queries by `metadata` and `document` contents. The `where` filter is used to filter by `metadata`, and the `where_document` filter is used to filter by `document` contents.

##### Filtering by metadata
In order to filter on metadata, you must supply a `where` filter dictionary to the query. The dictionary must have the following structure:

```python
{
    "metadata_field": {
        <Operator>: <Value>
    },
    "metadata_field": {
        <Operator>: <Value>
    },
}
```

Filtering metadata supports the following operators:

- `$eq` - equal to (string, int, float)
- `$ne` - not equal to (string, int, float)
- `$gt` - greater than (int, float)
- `$gte` - greater than or equal to (int, float)
- `$lt` - less than (int, float)
- `$lte` - less than or equal to (int, float)

Using the $eq operator is equivalent to using the `where` filter.
```python
{
    "metadata_field": "search_string"
}

# is equivalent to

{
    "metadata_field": {
        "$eq": "search_string"
    }
}

```
##### Filtering by document contents
In order to filter on document contents, you must supply a `where_document` filter dictionary to the query. The dictionary must have the following structure:

```python
# Filtering for a search_string
{
    "$contains": "search_string"
}
``` 


##### Using logical operators

You can also use the logical operators `$and` and `$or` to combine multiple filters.

An `$and` operator will return results that match all of the filters in the list.
```python
{
    "$and": [
        {
            "metadata_field": {
                <Operator>: <Value>
            }
        },
        {
            "metadata_field": {
                <Operator>: <Value>
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

An `$or` operator will return results that match any of the filters in the list.
```python
{
    "$or": [
        {
            "metadata_field": {
                <Operator>: <Value>
            }
        },
        {
            "metadata_field": {
                <Operator>: <Value>
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

### Updating data in a collection

Any property of items in a collection can be updated using `.update`.

```python
collection.update(
    ids=["id1", "id2", "id3", ...],
    embeddings=[[1.1, 2.3, 3.2], [4.5, 6.9, 4.4], [1.1, 2.3, 3.2], ...],
    metadatas=[{"chapter": "3", "verse": "16"}, {"chapter": "3", "verse": "5"}, {"chapter": "29", "verse": "11"}, ...],
    documents=["doc1", "doc2", "doc3", ...],
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



If an `id` is not found in the collection, an exception will be raised. If `documents` are supplied without corresponding `embeddings`, the embeddings will be recomupted with the collection's embedding function.

If the supplied `embeddings` are not the same dimension as the collection, an exception will be raised.

### Deleting data from a collection

Chroma supports deleting items from a collection by `id` using `.delete`. The embeddings, documents, and metadata associated with each item will be deleted.
⚠️ Naturally, this is a destructive operation, and cannot be undone.

<Tabs queryString groupId="lang" className="hideTabSwitcher">
<TabItem value="py" label="Python">

```python
collection.delete(
    ids=["id1", "id2", "id3",...],
	where={"chapter": "20"}
)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="js" label="JavaScript">

```javascript
await collection.delete(
    ["id1", "id2", "id3",...], //ids
	{"chapter": "20"} //where
)
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>



`.delete` also supports the `where` filter. If no `ids` are supplied, it will delete all items in the collection that match the `where` filter.
