docs/reference/Client.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Client
title: Client
sidebar_position: 1
---


## EphemeralClient

```python
def EphemeralClient(settings: Settings = Settings()) -> API
```

Creates an in-memory instance of Chroma. This is useful for testing and
development, but not recommended for production use.

## PersistentClient

```python
def PersistentClient(path: str = "./chroma",
                     settings: Settings = Settings()) -> API
```

Creates a persistent instance of Chroma that saves to disk. This is useful for
testing and development, but not recommended for production use.

**Arguments**:

- `path` - The directory to save Chroma's data to. Defaults to "./chroma".

## HttpClient

```python
def HttpClient(
    host: str = "localhost",
    port: str = "8000",
    ssl: bool = False,
    headers: Dict[str, str] = {},
    settings: Settings = Settings()) -> API
```

Creates a client that connects to a remote Chroma server. This supports
many clients connecting to the same server, and is the recommended way to
use Chroma in production.

**Arguments**:

- `host` - The hostname of the Chroma server. Defaults to "localhost".
- `port` - The port of the Chroma server. Defaults to "8000".
- `ssl` - Whether to use SSL to connect to the Chroma server. Defaults to False.
- `headers` - A dictionary of headers to send to the Chroma server. Defaults to {}.

## Client

```python
def Client(settings: Settings = __settings) -> API
```

Return a running chroma.API instance


# Client Methods

```python
class API(Component, ABC)
```

## heartbeat

```python
def heartbeat() -> int
```

Get the current time in nanoseconds since epoch.
Used to check if the server is alive.

**Returns**:

- `int` - The current time in nanoseconds since epoch

## list\_collections

```python
def list_collections() -> Sequence[Collection]
```

List all collections.

**Returns**:

- `Sequence[Collection]` - A list of collections
  

**Examples**:

  ```python
  client.list_collections()
  # [collection(name="my_collection", metadata={})]
  ```

## create\_collection

```python
def create_collection(name: str,
                      metadata: Optional[CollectionMetadata] = None,
                      embedding_function: Optional[EmbeddingFunction] = ef.
                      DefaultEmbeddingFunction(),
                      get_or_create: bool = False) -> Collection
```

Create a new collection with the given name and metadata.

**Arguments**:

- `name` - The name of the collection to create.
- `metadata` - Optional metadata to associate with the collection.
- `embedding_function` - Optional function to use to embed documents.
  Uses the default embedding function if not provided.
- `get_or_create` - If True, return the existing collection if it exists.
  

**Returns**:

- `Collection` - The newly created collection.
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If the collection already exists and get_or_create is False.
- `ValueError` - If the collection name is invalid.
  

**Examples**:

  ```python
  client.create_collection("my_collection")
  # collection(name="my_collection", metadata={})
  
  client.create_collection("my_collection", metadata={"foo": "bar"})
  # collection(name="my_collection", metadata={"foo": "bar"})
  ```

## get\_collection

```python
def get_collection(
    name: str,
    embedding_function: Optional[EmbeddingFunction] = ef.
    DefaultEmbeddingFunction()
) -> Collection
```

Get a collection with the given name.

**Arguments**:

- `name` - The name of the collection to get
- `embedding_function` - Optional function to use to embed documents.
  Uses the default embedding function if not provided.
  

**Returns**:

- `Collection` - The collection
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If the collection does not exist
  

**Examples**:

  ```python
  client.get_collection("my_collection")
  # collection(name="my_collection", metadata={})
  ```

## get\_or\_create\_collection

```python
def get_or_create_collection(
    name: str,
    metadata: Optional[CollectionMetadata] = None,
    embedding_function: Optional[EmbeddingFunction] = ef.
    DefaultEmbeddingFunction()
) -> Collection
```

Get or create a collection with the given name and metadata.

**Arguments**:

- `name` - The name of the collection to get or create
- `metadata` - Optional metadata to associate with the collection
- `embedding_function` - Optional function to use to embed documents
  

**Returns**:

  The collection
  

**Examples**:

  ```python
  client.get_or_create_collection("my_collection")
  # collection(name="my_collection", metadata={})
  ```

## delete\_collection

```python
def delete_collection(name: str) -> None
```

Delete a collection with the given name.

**Arguments**:

- `name` - The name of the collection to delete.
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If the collection does not exist.
  

**Examples**:

  ```python
  client.delete_collection("my_collection")
  ```

## reset

```python
def reset() -> bool
```

Resets the database. This will delete all collections and entries.

**Returns**:

- `bool` - True if the database was reset successfully.

## get\_version

```python
def get_version() -> str
```

Get the version of Chroma.

**Returns**:

- `str` - The version of Chroma

## get\_settings

```python
def get_settings() -> Settings
```

Get the settings used to initialize the client.

**Returns**:

- `Settings` - The settings used to initialize the client.

Commit message:

[DOC]: Count collections in Client API

docs/reference/Client.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Client
title: Client
sidebar_position: 1
---


## EphemeralClient

```python
def EphemeralClient(settings: Settings = Settings()) -> API
```

Creates an in-memory instance of Chroma. This is useful for testing and
development, but not recommended for production use.

## PersistentClient

```python
def PersistentClient(path: str = "./chroma",
                     settings: Settings = Settings()) -> API
```

Creates a persistent instance of Chroma that saves to disk. This is useful for
testing and development, but not recommended for production use.

**Arguments**:

- `path` - The directory to save Chroma's data to. Defaults to "./chroma".

## HttpClient

```python
def HttpClient(
    host: str = "localhost",
    port: str = "8000",
    ssl: bool = False,
    headers: Dict[str, str] = {},
    settings: Settings = Settings()) -> API
```

Creates a client that connects to a remote Chroma server. This supports
many clients connecting to the same server, and is the recommended way to
use Chroma in production.

**Arguments**:

- `host` - The hostname of the Chroma server. Defaults to "localhost".
- `port` - The port of the Chroma server. Defaults to "8000".
- `ssl` - Whether to use SSL to connect to the Chroma server. Defaults to False.
- `headers` - A dictionary of headers to send to the Chroma server. Defaults to {}.

## Client

```python
def Client(settings: Settings = __settings) -> API
```

Return a running chroma.API instance


# Client Methods

```python
class API(Component, ABC)
```

## heartbeat

```python
def heartbeat() -> int
```

Get the current time in nanoseconds since epoch.
Used to check if the server is alive.

**Returns**:

- `int` - The current time in nanoseconds since epoch

## list\_collections

```python
def list_collections() -> Sequence[Collection]
```

List all collections.

**Returns**:

- `Sequence[Collection]` - A list of collections
  

**Examples**:

  ```python
  client.list_collections()
  # [collection(name="my_collection", metadata={})]
  ```

## create\_collection

```python
def create_collection(name: str,
                      metadata: Optional[CollectionMetadata] = None,
                      embedding_function: Optional[EmbeddingFunction] = ef.
                      DefaultEmbeddingFunction(),
                      get_or_create: bool = False) -> Collection
```

Create a new collection with the given name and metadata.

**Arguments**:

- `name` - The name of the collection to create.
- `metadata` - Optional metadata to associate with the collection.
- `embedding_function` - Optional function to use to embed documents.
  Uses the default embedding function if not provided.
- `get_or_create` - If True, return the existing collection if it exists.
  

**Returns**:

- `Collection` - The newly created collection.
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If the collection already exists and get_or_create is False.
- `ValueError` - If the collection name is invalid.
  

**Examples**:

  ```python
  client.create_collection("my_collection")
  # collection(name="my_collection", metadata={})
  
  client.create_collection("my_collection", metadata={"foo": "bar"})
  # collection(name="my_collection", metadata={"foo": "bar"})
  ```

## get\_collection

```python
def get_collection(
    name: str,
    embedding_function: Optional[EmbeddingFunction] = ef.
    DefaultEmbeddingFunction()
) -> Collection
```

Get a collection with the given name.

**Arguments**:

- `name` - The name of the collection to get
- `embedding_function` - Optional function to use to embed documents.
  Uses the default embedding function if not provided.
  

**Returns**:

- `Collection` - The collection
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If the collection does not exist
  

**Examples**:

  ```python
  client.get_collection("my_collection")
  # collection(name="my_collection", metadata={})
  ```

## get\_or\_create\_collection

```python
def get_or_create_collection(
    name: str,
    metadata: Optional[CollectionMetadata] = None,
    embedding_function: Optional[EmbeddingFunction] = ef.
    DefaultEmbeddingFunction()
) -> Collection
```

Get or create a collection with the given name and metadata.

**Arguments**:

- `name` - The name of the collection to get or create
- `metadata` - Optional metadata to associate with the collection
- `embedding_function` - Optional function to use to embed documents
  

**Returns**:

  The collection
  

**Examples**:

  ```python
  client.get_or_create_collection("my_collection")
  # collection(name="my_collection", metadata={})
  ```

## delete\_collection

```python
def delete_collection(name: str) -> None
```

Delete a collection with the given name.

**Arguments**:

- `name` - The name of the collection to delete.
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If the collection does not exist.
  

**Examples**:

  ```python
  client.delete_collection("my_collection")
  ```

## count\_collections

```python
def count_collections() -> int
```

Count the number of collections.

**Returns**:

- `int` - The number of collections.


**Examples**:

```python
client.count_collections()
# 1
```

## reset

```python
def reset() -> bool
```

Resets the database. This will delete all collections and entries.

**Returns**:

- `bool` - True if the database was reset successfully.

## get\_version

```python
def get_version() -> str
```

Get the version of Chroma.

**Returns**:

- `str` - The version of Chroma

## get\_settings

```python
def get_settings() -> Settings
```

Get the settings used to initialize the client.

**Returns**:

- `Settings` - The settings used to initialize the client.
