docs/reference/Collection.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Collection
title: Collection
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Collection Objects

```python
class Collection(BaseModel)
```

#### count

```python
def count() -> int
```

The total number of embeddings added to the database

**Returns**:

- `int` - The total number of embeddings added to the database

#### add

```python
def add(ids: OneOrMany[ID],
        embeddings: Optional[OneOrMany[Embedding]] = None,
        metadatas: Optional[OneOrMany[Metadata]] = None,
        documents: Optional[OneOrMany[Document]] = None,
        increment_index: bool = True)
```

Add embeddings to the data store.

**Arguments**:

- `ids` - The ids of the embeddings you wish to add
- `embedding` - The embeddings to add. If None, embeddings will be computed based on the documents using the embedding_function set for the Collection. Optional.
- `metadata` - The metadata to associate with the embeddings. When querying, you can filter on this metadata. Optional.
- `documents` - The documents to associate with the embeddings. Optional.
- `ids` - The ids to associate with the embeddings. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

  None
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If you don&#x27;t provide either embeddings or documents

#### get

```python
def get(ids: Optional[OneOrMany[ID]] = None,
        where: Optional[Where] = None,
        limit: Optional[int] = None,
        offset: Optional[int] = None,
        where_document: Optional[WhereDocument] = None,
        include: Include = ["metadatas", "documents"]) -> GetResult
```

Get embeddings and their associate data from the data store. If no ids or where filter is provided returns
all embeddings up to limit starting at offset.

**Arguments**:

- `ids` - The ids of the embeddings to get. Optional.
- `where` - A Where type dict used to filter results by. E.g. {&quot;color&quot; : &quot;red&quot;, &quot;price&quot;: 4.20}. Optional.
- `limit` - The number of documents to return. Optional.
- `offset` - The offset to start returning results from. Useful for paging results with limit. Optional.
- `where_document` - A WhereDocument type dict used to filter by the documents. E.g. {$contains: {&quot;text&quot;: &quot;hello&quot;}}. Optional.
- `include` - A list of what to include in the results. Can contain &quot;embeddings&quot;, &quot;metadatas&quot;, &quot;documents&quot;. Ids are always included. Defaults to [&quot;metadatas&quot;, &quot;documents&quot;]. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

- `GetResult` - A GetResult object containing the results.
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If you provide both ids and a where filter

#### peek

```python
def peek(limit: int = 10) -> GetResult
```

Get the first few results in the database up to limit

**Arguments**:

- `limit` - The number of results to return.
  

**Returns**:

- `GetResult` - A GetResult object containing the results.

#### query

```python
def query(
        query_embeddings: Optional[OneOrMany[Embedding]] = None,
        query_texts: Optional[OneOrMany[Document]] = None,
        n_results: int = 10,
        where: Optional[Where] = None,
        where_document: Optional[WhereDocument] = None,
        include: Include = ["metadatas", "documents",
                            "distances"]) -> QueryResult
```

Get the n_results nearest neighbor embeddings for provided query_embeddings or query_texts.

**Arguments**:

- `query_embeddings` - The embeddings to get the closes neighbors of. Optional.
- `query_texts` - The document texts to get the closes neighbors of. Optional.
- `n_results` - The number of neighbors to return for each query_embedding or query_text. Optional.
- `where` - A Where type dict used to filter results by. E.g. {&quot;color&quot; : &quot;red&quot;, &quot;price&quot;: 4.20}. Optional.
- `where_document` - A WhereDocument type dict used to filter by the documents. E.g. {$contains: {&quot;text&quot;: &quot;hello&quot;}}. Optional.
- `include` - A list of what to include in the results. Can contain &quot;embeddings&quot;, &quot;metadatas&quot;, &quot;documents&quot;, &quot;distances&quot;. Ids are always included. Defaults to [&quot;metadatas&quot;, &quot;documents&quot;, &quot;distances&quot;]. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

- `QueryResult` - A QueryResult object containing the results.
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If you don&#x27;t provide either query_embeddings or query_texts
- `ValueError` - If you provide both query_embeddings and query_texts

#### modify

```python
def modify(name: Optional[str] = None, metadata=None)
```

Modify the collection name or metadata

**Arguments**:

- `name` - The updated name for the collection. Optional.
- `metadata` - The updated metadata for the collection. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

  None

#### update

```python
def update(ids: OneOrMany[ID],
           embeddings: Optional[OneOrMany[Embedding]] = None,
           metadatas: Optional[OneOrMany[Metadata]] = None,
           documents: Optional[OneOrMany[Document]] = None)
```

Update the embeddings, metadatas or documents for provided ids.

**Arguments**:

- `ids` - The ids of the embeddings to update
- `embeddings` - The embeddings to add. If None, embeddings will be computed based on the documents using the embedding_function set for the Collection. Optional.
- `metadatas` - The metadata to associate with the embeddings. When querying, you can filter on this metadata. Optional.
- `documents` - The documents to associate with the embeddings. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

  None

#### delete

```python
def delete(ids: Optional[IDs] = None,
           where: Optional[Where] = None,
           where_document: Optional[WhereDocument] = None)
```

Delete the embeddings based on ids and/or a where filter

**Arguments**:

- `ids` - The ids of the embeddings to delete
- `where` - A Where type dict used to filter the delection by. E.g. {&quot;color&quot; : &quot;red&quot;, &quot;price&quot;: 4.20}. Optional.
- `where_document` - A WhereDocument type dict used to filter the deletion by the document content. E.g. {$contains: {&quot;text&quot;: &quot;hello&quot;}}. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

  None

Commit message:

update to latest version of code

docs/reference/Collection.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Collection
title: Collection
sidebar_position: 2
---

## Collection Objects

```python
class Collection(BaseModel)
```

#### count

```python
def count() -> int
```

The total number of embeddings added to the database

**Returns**:

- `int` - The total number of embeddings added to the database

#### add

```python
def add(ids: OneOrMany[ID],
        embeddings: Optional[OneOrMany[Embedding]] = None,
        metadatas: Optional[OneOrMany[Metadata]] = None,
        documents: Optional[OneOrMany[Document]] = None)
```

Add embeddings to the data store.

**Arguments**:

- `ids` - The ids of the embeddings you wish to add
- `embedding` - The embeddings to add. If None, embeddings will be computed based on the documents using the embedding_function set for the Collection. Optional.
- `metadata` - The metadata to associate with the embeddings. When querying, you can filter on this metadata. Optional.
- `documents` - The documents to associate with the embeddings. Optional.
- `ids` - The ids to associate with the embeddings. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

  None
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If you don&#x27;t provide either embeddings or documents
- `ValueError` - If the length of ids, embeddings, metadatas, or documents don&#x27;t match
- `ValueError` - If you don&#x27;t provide an embedding function and don&#x27;t provide embeddings
- `ValueError` - If you provide both embeddings and documents
- `ValueError` - If you provide an id that already exists

#### get

```python
def get(ids: Optional[OneOrMany[ID]] = None,
        where: Optional[Where] = None,
        limit: Optional[int] = None,
        offset: Optional[int] = None,
        where_document: Optional[WhereDocument] = None,
        include: Include = ["metadatas", "documents"]) -> GetResult
```

Get embeddings and their associate data from the data store. If no ids or where filter is provided returns
all embeddings up to limit starting at offset.

**Arguments**:

- `ids` - The ids of the embeddings to get. Optional.
- `where` - A Where type dict used to filter results by. E.g. {&quot;color&quot; : &quot;red&quot;, &quot;price&quot;: 4.20}. Optional.
- `limit` - The number of documents to return. Optional.
- `offset` - The offset to start returning results from. Useful for paging results with limit. Optional.
- `where_document` - A WhereDocument type dict used to filter by the documents. E.g. {$contains: {&quot;text&quot;: &quot;hello&quot;}}. Optional.
- `include` - A list of what to include in the results. Can contain &quot;embeddings&quot;, &quot;metadatas&quot;, &quot;documents&quot;. Ids are always included. Defaults to [&quot;metadatas&quot;, &quot;documents&quot;]. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

- `GetResult` - A GetResult object containing the results.

#### peek

```python
def peek(limit: int = 10) -> GetResult
```

Get the first few results in the database up to limit

**Arguments**:

- `limit` - The number of results to return.
  

**Returns**:

- `GetResult` - A GetResult object containing the results.

#### query

```python
def query(
        query_embeddings: Optional[OneOrMany[Embedding]] = None,
        query_texts: Optional[OneOrMany[Document]] = None,
        n_results: int = 10,
        where: Optional[Where] = None,
        where_document: Optional[WhereDocument] = None,
        include: Include = ["metadatas", "documents",
                            "distances"]) -> QueryResult
```

Get the n_results nearest neighbor embeddings for provided query_embeddings or query_texts.

**Arguments**:

- `query_embeddings` - The embeddings to get the closes neighbors of. Optional.
- `query_texts` - The document texts to get the closes neighbors of. Optional.
- `n_results` - The number of neighbors to return for each query_embedding or query_text. Optional.
- `where` - A Where type dict used to filter results by. E.g. {&quot;color&quot; : &quot;red&quot;, &quot;price&quot;: 4.20}. Optional.
- `where_document` - A WhereDocument type dict used to filter by the documents. E.g. {$contains: {&quot;text&quot;: &quot;hello&quot;}}. Optional.
- `include` - A list of what to include in the results. Can contain &quot;embeddings&quot;, &quot;metadatas&quot;, &quot;documents&quot;, &quot;distances&quot;. Ids are always included. Defaults to [&quot;metadatas&quot;, &quot;documents&quot;, &quot;distances&quot;]. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

- `QueryResult` - A QueryResult object containing the results.
  

**Raises**:

- `ValueError` - If you don&#x27;t provide either query_embeddings or query_texts
- `ValueError` - If you provide both query_embeddings and query_texts

#### modify

```python
def modify(name: Optional[str] = None, metadata=None)
```

Modify the collection name or metadata

**Arguments**:

- `name` - The updated name for the collection. Optional.
- `metadata` - The updated metadata for the collection. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

  None

#### update

```python
def update(ids: OneOrMany[ID],
           embeddings: Optional[OneOrMany[Embedding]] = None,
           metadatas: Optional[OneOrMany[Metadata]] = None,
           documents: Optional[OneOrMany[Document]] = None)
```

Update the embeddings, metadatas or documents for provided ids.

**Arguments**:

- `ids` - The ids of the embeddings to update
- `embeddings` - The embeddings to add. If None, embeddings will be computed based on the documents using the embedding_function set for the Collection. Optional.
- `metadatas` - The metadata to associate with the embeddings. When querying, you can filter on this metadata. Optional.
- `documents` - The documents to associate with the embeddings. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

  None

#### upsert

```python
def upsert(ids: OneOrMany[ID],
           embeddings: Optional[OneOrMany[Embedding]] = None,
           metadatas: Optional[OneOrMany[Metadata]] = None,
           documents: Optional[OneOrMany[Document]] = None)
```

Update the embeddings, metadatas or documents for provided ids, or create them if they don&#x27;t exist.

**Arguments**:

- `ids` - The ids of the embeddings to update
- `embeddings` - The embeddings to add. If None, embeddings will be computed based on the documents using the embedding_function set for the Collection. Optional.
- `metadatas` - The metadata to associate with the embeddings. When querying, you can filter on this metadata. Optional.
- `documents` - The documents to associate with the embeddings. Optional.

#### delete

```python
def delete(ids: Optional[IDs] = None,
           where: Optional[Where] = None,
           where_document: Optional[WhereDocument] = None)
```

Delete the embeddings based on ids and/or a where filter

**Arguments**:

- `ids` - The ids of the embeddings to delete
- `where` - A Where type dict used to filter the delection by. E.g. {&quot;color&quot; : &quot;red&quot;, &quot;price&quot;: 4.20}. Optional.
- `where_document` - A WhereDocument type dict used to filter the deletion by the document content. E.g. {$contains: {&quot;text&quot;: &quot;hello&quot;}}. Optional.
  

**Returns**:

  None
